Our theme this month is feed your hope.
Hope is essential for peace, happiness, courage, and life.
But what is hope?
When the Bible uses the word hope, it's referring not only to the desire for something good,
but also to the basis for believing it will happen.
So hope is more than just wishful thinking or even expectation.
It's based on fact, there's evidence to back it up.
Thus true hope can come only from the one who has the power to fulfill whatever he promises, Jehovah God.
Jehovah provides hope in abundance.
Notice what Romans 1513 says about Jehovah.
May the God who gives hope fill you with all joy and peace
by your trusting in him so that you may abound in hope with power of Holy Spirit.
Yes, Jehovah gives us what we need to abound in hope.
And yet the Apostle Paul also wrote as recorded at Colossians 1.23,
that a Christian could be shifted away from the hope.
So we must never take our hope for granted. We need to feed it.
What do you need to feed hope?
Two things are mentioned at Romans 154 for all the things that were written beforehand.
We're written for our instruction so that through our endurance
and through the comfort from the scriptures we might have hope.
So did you notice what feeds hope?
Our endurance and the comfort from the scriptures.
The scriptures. What we take into our minds is vital to keeping our hope strong.
For example, recall what happened shortly after Jesus was executed as recorded in Luke chapter 24.
This is part of the conversation between an unidentified traveler and the disheartened disciples.
The disciples were beside themselves with grief over Jesus' death.
The traveler, though, was in fact the resurrected Jesus. The disciples didn't yet realize this.
So they said, as recorded at Luke 24.21,
but we were hoping that this man was the one who was going to deliver Israel.
Yes, and besides all these things, this is the third day since these things occurred.
The scripture shows just how susceptible we can be to discouragement.
When things don't turn out as we expect.
But notice what Jesus did to help them.
Verses 25 through 27.
So he said to them,
Oh, senseless ones, and slow of heart to believe all the things the prophets have spoken.
Was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and to enter into His glory?
And starting with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them things pertaining to himself in all the scriptures.
So how did Jesus feed their hope?
First, by showing them that they were right to hope in the fulfillment of the scriptures.
And then by teaching them how those scriptures had been fulfilled.
Can we do the same today?
Yes. When we're facing challenges that threaten our hope,
we should ask Jehovah for guidance by means of His Holy Spirit.
And then with the help of the publications of the faithful and discreet slave,
we should meditate carefully on how the scriptures are being fulfilled.
It can be difficult to find time for this in these hectic days.
There are so many claims on our attention, so many things to know and do.
But what you take into your mind is vital to keeping your hope alive.
The humanitarian crises facing mankind today could make any one of us feel anxious.
Experts in fields of technology, finance, and government have found it necessary to coin new words to convey the gravity of the situation.
In 2023, the word polycrisis began to soar in usage.
A polycrisis refers to many global threats happening at the same time.
The overlapping of health emergencies, climate change, wars, forced migrations, natural disasters,
and economic collapse all happening simultaneously.
A polycrisis could throw a person off balance spiritually.
But as students of Jesus sign of the last days, we have fully anticipated that there would be many serious problems facing mankind at the same time and on an unprecedented scale.
But isn't it interesting that the world itself has seen fit to come up with an expression that adequately matches what we are going through?
Whether they realize it or not, they are acknowledging that Jesus' words are being fulfilled.
So rather than become eaten up by anxiety, we can find hope in these very same facts, if we meditate on the fulfillment of the Scriptures.
The Scriptures contain the promise of God, a promise of salvation.
Jehovah God will bring to ruin those ruining the earth.
There is going to be a resurrection. Death will be no more.
The righteous will possess the earth, and they will live forever on it.
Understanding how the Scriptures apply and how they're fulfilled builds our faith.
The stronger our faith is, the stronger our hope will be, because faith is the assured, the assured expectation of what is hoped for.
Do you think often about your hope?
Do you meditate on what it means?
First Thessalonians 5.8 says, let us put on the hope of salvation as a helmet.
As a helmet protects the head, so hope protects the mind.
Who of us does not need such a helmet?
Perhaps you have a favorite kingdom song or original song from JW.org that keeps Jehovah's promises shining brightly in your mind.
When you recall that song, you're feeding your hope, which in turn guards your thinking.
Our hope has to be so real to us that we can see ourselves in the new world no longer battling illness and depression,
but waking up each day with better hearing, better vision, better looks, better outlooks, no longer mourning the death of those we love,
but rather experiencing the thrill of seeing them come back to life.
What's the longest lifespan you've ever heard of?
What's the greatest number you can think of?
Now combine the two concepts, living for...
Well, we could attempt to explain Googleplexes of galactic millenniums, but the fact is, no matter how great a period of time you can possibly fathom,
Jehovah promises us life that cannot be defined by any number because it never stops.
That's what the Bible means by its many references to everlasting life.
Visualize a project that would take several thousand years to plan and complete.
What kind of forests would you like to grow?
Imagine having millions of years to observe, analyze and draw new conclusions from Jehovah's activities and creative works.
What possibilities exist for an earth filled with loyal, loving people who cooperate with the many systems Jehovah has created?
What kind of knowledge would you like to acquire that is currently out of reach because of our limited lifespan?
What will it be like to build on the knowledge of hundreds of generations?
Picture whom you will meet in the resurrection.
Yes, we think of family members and faithful ones of old, but consider what it will be like to understand how you are related to every person on this planet all the way back to the beginning.
Imagine all intelligent creation in heaven and on earth united as one happy family praising Jehovah.
Is this just wishful thinking? Happy thoughts? A dream? No. This is hope.
It's meditation on the promise of God who cannot lie meditation on what he has done to fulfill his promise providing the ransom and establishing a heavenly kingdom that will bring mankind back to perfection.
Meditation on Jehovah's personality. A personality revealed in his creative works in the scriptures and mirrored perfectly by his only begotten son.
A personality we know, not only through deep study, but also through our own experience, and this leads us to the second way we feed our hope.
Recall that Romans 154 said that there are two ways to feed your hope through the comfort from the scriptures, but also through our endurance.
How does endurance feed your hope? Well, notice what Paul said about this back at Romans chapter 5 verses 3 through 5. Not only that, but let us rejoice while in tribulations.
Since we know that tribulation produces endurance, endurance in turn, an approved condition, the approved condition in turn hope, and the hope does not lead to disappointment.
Now the hope mentioned here is referring not to our initial hope. We already had that when we learned the promise of God contained in the scriptures.
That's why Paul begins verse 3 with the words not only that. Yes, not only do we rejoice in our initial hope, but we rejoice in our reinforced hope, hope made even stronger through new experiences with Jehovah as our personal helper.
Now the only way to understand this process fully is by going through it.
What's been your experience? What have you done when undergoing tribulation? No doubt you turned to Jehovah for help, and then what happened? He helped you, true the trial might not have disappeared, but you discovered that you somehow had the strength to endure it, or the wisdom to manage it, or practical aid, or encouragement at just the right time,
or the courage to continue bearing witness to the truth. How did you feel in that moment? Did you sense that Jehovah heard your prayer? Did you perceive Jehovah reassuring you that you and he have a relationship?
When you go through that, even once, you no longer wonder whether you could endure a crisis. You know you can with Jehovah's help. That is hope, not simply a desire for something good, but the basis for believing it will happen.
Many of our dear brothers and sisters have built up a lifetime of such experiences. That's why their hope hasn't weakened despite waiting for the new world for decades. To the contrary, their hope has been strengthened through experience. They know firsthand what Romans 5-3-5 is talking about, and likely you do as well.
Thank God for hope. Jehovah is the God who gives hope. May we never become shifted away from our hope. When difficulties arise, feed your hope. Continue to meditate on the comfort from the scriptures. Keep trusting in Jehovah for strength and wisdom, and each day take note of how he reassures you that hope, your hope.
Is real.